Alright, so. This is basically going to be a stream-of-consciousness document where I dump all of my ideas for Idolon as I think of them, and hopefully lead into a cohesive 
section about story. Let's begin with...

MECHANICS
---------

Our mechanics should be simple. I'm thinkin' WASD/Arrow Keys (or hjkl) for movement, and space for interact. We shouldn't need more than that.

The game takes place in a 2D perspective, but that doesn't mean we need generic platformer mechanics. 

	-This should feel relatively slow-paced and deliberate. If the player moves like Mario, we're doing it wrong.
	
	-Rather than being execution intensive, we want the game to feel mentally challenging.
	
On that note, I'm thinking the control layout should be as follows:

	D/Right/L: Move right
	A/Left/H: Move left
	S/Down/J: Duck/Climb down
	W/Up/K: Climb up
	Space/E/Enter: Object interaction/Chat box progression/phone check

You may be noticing the lack of a 'jump' key. This doesn't mean the game has to play out on a straight line. I think 'climb up' should be a universal option -- use it
for climbing boxes and ledges, rather than jumping over them all skippy-like. If things are arcadey, it will really ruin the motif we're trying for.

The player will also likely have an inventory, though the items within can be automatically used when applied to the proper situation.
(e.g. w/ screwdriver in inventory, player attempts to open vent, screwdriver is used to pull out screws.)

I mentioned above that space/E/enter may double as a key to check your phone -- I like the idea of being on a timer. I think that, when not standing in front of any interactable 
objects, pressing the use key should allow the player to look at their phone to see how much time they have left, a map of the area, as well as their inventory. This would be 
accompanied by the actual player sprite looking down at the phone in their hand. Of course, this could just be placed on-screen instead, without the phone being involved, but it 
seems like a neat visual design point to me.

I want to take a moment to point out that everything in this file should be taken with a grain of salt. I'm not the only person working on the project, obviously, and running
with my input without talking about it as a group would be silly.


VISUAL STYLE
------------

While it would be nice to try to go for a full hand-drawn sort of look, with fluid animations that rival the likes of a studio, none of us have a terrible amount of artistic
talent. With that in mind, I'd like to try to follow a very simple policy on visual design:

	-Emphasis on heavy, dramatic shadows

	-Clean animations that can be easily re-used

	-Strike some sort of balance between spritework/cel-shading

I'm not terribly fond of the idea of going with a straight-up sprite-based approach. It's really heavily overdone in small game projects at this point, so if we could all
fiddle about with various ideas until we find a middle ground between something that's easy to produce and something that looks relatively decent, that would be wise.

The lighting is going to be a really big deal. Since, as mentioned before, we don't have artistic talent in spades, we're going to want to rely heavily on what can be generated for us.
Most of the game should be designed around the idea of shadows/lighting, to the point where it may touch how level design plays out. 

Also, I personally think that it would be nice to have a blue cast to the game that gradually fades to red as the story progresses. There's also the idea that we start the game unable to see the player's
face, cast in shadow, but can see, very sharply, the face of everyone else. As the story continues, the inverse becomes true -- the 'protagonist's face becomes more clear, while the faces of others
fade to shadow.

As the stages progress, and the character becomes more insane, the game should fade from a standard look to more of the bloodpunk theme previously discussed. This will all change back to normal, briefly,
in the final moments of the player-interactable portion of the game, before just going straight back to full-blown insanity.

USER INTERFACE
--------------

We're going to want this to be fairly minimal. I think the entirety of the in-game UI should consist of four elements:

	-A top dialog box. This box will /ONLY/ be used by the person who shall henceforth be referred to as 'the operator'. They're the one giving you commands.

		-Activity in this box should NOT interrupt gameplay, and as such, the box shouldn't be terribly visually intrusive.

	-A bottom dialog box. This box will be used by all other characters, including the Player Character(Who can only communicate with things such as '...?', '...!', and the like.)

		-Activity in this box WILL interrupt gameplay, so it would be wise to make it take screen prominence.

	-The phone screen, when pulled up

	-Any indicators of direction of things we need.

		-This one is very debatable, and I'm not sure we want it. Basically, this would consist of a small arrow pointing at persons of interest when off-screen.

I'm thinking that much of the UI should go for a muted theme, save for the glowy phone screen. Once again, open for debate. The key concept here is being unintrusive.


AUDIO DESIGN
-----------

I literally haven't put any thought into this. We're going to need some serious expansion here, audio makes or breaks a game. Perhaps mostly ambient sound in the background to begin with,
gradually fading into more and more intense/disturbing music as the game progresses?


With all of that said and done, I'm going to move on to story. This is going to be written somewhat like a screen play. I only have the very first scenario concretely done, but ideas for the rest
are circulating.

STORY
-----

NOTE: Much of the game is going to revolve around warehouses, I think. This is to make it easier to reuse assets, as well as make it more jarring as we transition into blood-punk things. We may
have a stage or two that takes place outside of them.


-----

Area One:

<The screen fades in from black. The player is laying face down, a stack of boxes blocking him in from behind. He's in a dimly-lit warehouse, stacks of boxes and crates everywhere. The occasional
camera sticks out from the ceiling, a blinking red light indicating their activity.  In the small clearing that he's in, there's an inert phone laying on a box. After a moment, it begins to vibrate,
 and the screen casts a blue glow. The player gets up to his feet. Player control begins.>

<The player walks over to the box, which prompts a small space bar to fade into existence above the phone, as a clue.The player picks it up, and look at the screen. The call is from an unknown source. 
All missions should start with accepting the call. Please remember that the player is free to move/navigate while this dialog is happening, and as such, it progresses on a timer, rather than button press.>

<During this time, the player is expected to be familiarizing themselves with movement, interacting with various little distractions along the way, and getting used to climbing up/down boxes with the W and S
keys. As the player progresses forward, the sound of an engine idling in the distance should grow louder>

Operator: "Hello."
"I see you've awoken. How fortunate."
"I know you're a bit disgruntled by your current predicament, but we'll have to look past that for the moment."
"If you haven't already, you should start making your way forward. The picture is a bit grainy, I'll adjust it as we go."

<There's a brief pause.>

"I'm sure you're probably wondering what's expected of you."
"Don't worry. It's nothing that won't come naturally."
"Think of yourself as a helping hand. You're going to make life easier for us."

<The player should, during this time, come upon a crate along flat ground. This particular crate should have a grip bar on either side of it, indicating that it can not only be climbed, but interacted with.
The player will push this crate forward to climb a stack of boxes, at the top of which is a lever inside of a breaker box. When pulled, the camera transitions to the side, as the lights in that section of the
warehouse suddenly turn on. A door, now in view of the screen, slides open, revealing a woman standing outside. She looks quite perturbed -- significantly more so as the sound of the idling engine suddenly roars
into life. The truck that's been sitting on-screen suddenly turns on its headlights and floors it. The woman explodes into a shower of bits.>

Player: "...!"

Operator: "There you go."
"You didn't even require instruction. Good job."

<The screen begins fading to black>

"I think you're going to be a valuable asset to us."

---------------

Obviously, it's not very involved yet. The whole idea is to start the player almost entirely uninvolved -- getting their feet wet. They're just an accessory to the murder, not an integral part of it. The level of
involvement will increase moving forward. 







------------------------



That's all I have right this moment. There's a lot in this document, so there's probably a lot to discuss as a group -- I'll continue to push forard with the story as time goes on. With my ideas for the game laid out,
story should come a lot more naturally (and a lot more quickly) from this point forward.
